[technical]
210 (210s)
Shorthand term for the big 210-foot antennas on the ground, which were sensitive enough to receive high bit rate data from the weaker omnidirectional antennas.

Abort Guidance System (AGS)
A backup navigation system and computer in the LM which could take over if something happened to the main AGC or PGNS. It was less featureful than the main system, but more than sufficient to return to Lunar orbit and rendezvous with the CSM.

Acceleration Command (ACCEL CMD)
Similar to but independent from DIRECT in that the ACA stick would fire the thrusters for those axes, thus changing the attitude rates. When the stick was let go, the thrusters would stop and any rotation would continue. Unlike DIRECT, ACCEL CMD operated proportionally, and relied on the SCS ECA.

AC electrical bus (AC bus, AC buses, AC BUS 1, AC BUS 2, AC BUS 3, AC 1, AC 2, AC 3)
There were three inverters connected to the two DC electrical buses in the CSM which transformed the DC power into AC for some of the spacecraft systems. Two inverters were present in the LM.

Amp-hours
Essentially a measure of remaining electrical juice. The compound unit is instructive: given 10 amp-hours, one could run at 1 amp for 10 hours, or 5 amps for 2 hours, for instance.

Attitude Control Assembly (ACA, RHC)
Also known as the Rotational Hand Controller (RHC), the ACA was a small joystick that allowed control of the attitude rates of the spacecraft. It could manipulate all three axes, and filtered through the SCS had multiple modes of control operation.

Attitude & Translation Control Assembly (ATCA)
Collectively, the ACA and TTCA joysticks that allowed control of the spacecraft.

Attitude Hold (ATT HOLD)
With this SCS mode, the automated systems would maintain the spacecraft within a specified deadband range of a given attitude, firing thrusters as it rotated out of the target range.

Aerozine
A 50/50 mixture of hydrazine and UDMH. Both of these chemicals are extraordinarily unpleasant.

Alignment Optical Telescope (AOT)
[This instrument](https://www.hq.nasa.gov/alsj/aot.htm), present on both the CM and the LM, was a mounted telescope which could be pointed at stars as part of a P51 or P52 alignment process to measure the attitude of the spacecraft.

Apollo Guidance Computer (AGC)
The main computer managing navigation, autopilot, and other miscellenia. The same hardware and some of the same software were used in both the CM and the LM. The primary interface to the AGC was the DSKY.

Ascent Stage (Ascent)
This stage of the Lunar Module encompassed most of the spacecraft, and typically was all that left the surface of the Moon: the cabin and the ascent engine were in this stage.

Automatic Gain Control (AGC)
An automated system for managing signal strength, as well as the resulting signal strength reading put out onto the panel.

Aquarius
The given name of the Apollo 13 Lunar Module.

Attitude
The way the spacecraft is pointed, relative to the universe.

B/D ROLL
Roll could be managed ([panel 8](#ref-panel-cm-aux)) by all four SM RCS packages. Since a pair could do the job just fine, packages A and C were grouped together for enabling and disabling, as were B and D. This allowed for 0, 2, or 4 thrusters to be used for roll control as required.

Barber pole
A talkback indicator which read negative displayed a diagonal hatch pattern that looked like a barber pole.

BAT BUS TIE (BUS TIE AC)
The batteries had their own buses A and B. When they were wanted in use, the battery buses would be tied over to the main buses.

Battery taps (Low-volt taps, Low taps, High-volt taps, High taps, High voltage taps)
The LM batteries collectively supplied slightly too much voltage when fresh. The high-volt taps pulled some of that load to reduce the effective voltage to a safe range for the rest of the system. The low taps were used otherwise.

Beam Width (WIDE BEAM)
The high-gain antenna on-board could be configured to operate on three beam widths: wide, medium, and narrow. As you can imagine, narrow beam was more focused and powerful, but required more-precise aim.

Bipropellant (Bi)
A common term for the two fuels that many engines or thrusters burn: typically a fuel and an oxidizer, and in the case of Apollo the two hypergolic chemicals would automatically ignite and burn upon mutual contact.

Bit Rate
Like your mobile phone, the Apollo communications system had to step down its transmission rate in low-power regimes or other poor signal conditions. Only a limited selection of telemetry was available in LOW BIT RATE.

Body Mounted Attitude Gyro (BMAG, BMAGs)
These two gyros served as a backup system to the IMU, tracking the spacecraft attitude. They didn't work the same way as the IMU, and provided only rates (ie like an accelerometer), not absolute attitude.

Checkpoint
Tapes of the data coming down from Apollo would be periodically recorded for safekeeping.

Circuit Breaker (Circuit Breakers, CB, CBs)
Just like the ones in your house, the circuit breakers protected the electrical components in case of a surge or a short. But they were also actively and frequently opened or closed to power on or off various systems.

Coarse Align (VERB 41)
A method of readjusting the orientation of the IMU Stable Member in which it was torqued around quickly, taking 15 seconds. As this necessarily disengaged the inertial sensors, any drift in spacecraft attitude during the operation would result in errors in the resulting alignment.

Command Module Computer (CMC)
The AGC that lives in the CM.

Communications Processor (CP, CPs)
These large processing systems in the Mission Control Center decoded the received telemetry data and did the then-complex work of setting the data up for display everywhere it needed to go.

Consumables
Any resource that depleted was a consumable: cryogenic gas, propellant, carbon dioxide filters, and many others were all consumed over the course of a flight.

Coupling Data Unit (CDU, CDUs, FCDU, FCDUs)
Essentially analog-to-digital converters, the CDUs allowed the computer to read the analog voltage signals put out by most of the spacecraft's instruments as numeric digital values.

Crewman Optical Alignment Sight (COAS)
[This window-mounted instrument](https://www.hq.nasa.gov/alsj/coas.htm) projected a targeting reticle overlay over the window of the spacecraft, giving a fixed, reliable sight reference. It was used during LM extraction, and during burns to verify the spacecraft attitude and rates.

Cryo (Cryogenic Tank, Cryogenic Tanks)
Cryogenic (very cold) tanks were used for dense storage of useful gases like Oxygen and Hydrogen. Recall that cold gases take less volume.

Current (Amps, Amperage)
You may recall from basic electrical physics that current and voltage are key elements of electrical flow. Current is particularly important to monitor, as it is representative of the rate of power draw.

Cryogenic Tank Heaters (O₂ TANK 1 HEATERS, CRYOGENIC O₂ HEATER 1)
Recall that by the Ideal Gas Law (PV=nRT) the same amount of gas at a higher temperature in the same volume will be under greater pressure. Because many systems (like the fuel cells) were pressure-fed and had a minimum operating pressure, the heaters could be used to raise the pressure even with less gas remaining.

CSM
Command/Service Module, the name for the mated Command and Sevice Modules. These formed two-thirds of the Apollo spacecraft system, along with the Lunar Module.

CWEA
Caution and Warning Electronics Assembly.

DC electrical bus (MAIN A, MAIN B)
The CSM was wired with two direct current electrical loops to its components to supply power to them. Not every component was on both buses. Each could be powered by up to two of the fuel cells.

Deadband
A small range around a target attitude within which the spacecraft would be kept. When flying with automated systems, the size of the deadband could be configured.

Descent Engine Control Assembly (DECA)
The systems that managed the propellant flow, throttle, gimbal thrust vectoring, etc of the DPS.

Descent Stage (Descent)
This stage of the Lunar Module contained the legs and the large Descent Propulsion System engine, along with batteries and consumable tanks for use before arrival upon and departure from the Moon. It was usually left behind on the Moon, so the weight did not have to be carried back up.

Delog
Upon special request, the telemetry data previously received from the spacecraft could be read back from a given time range, typically on 1-second intervals, and printed onto (many) pages for review.

Descent Propulsion System (DPS)
The Lunar Module had two engines, both of which burned the same Aerozine/nitrogen tetroxide combination as the other Apollo engines. The DPS was part of the descent stage of the Lunar Module, and was left behind on the Moon to save weight. It was unique in that it could throttle down to 10% of full thrust.

Digital Autopilot (DAP)
The DAP was the program and interface between the CMC and the RCS systems of the spacecraft. It could be set to maintain narrow or wide deadband, and configured with the DSKY to use particular sets of thrusters, especially if some had failed.

DIRECT
A setting for the joystick control assemblies. With this engaged, a spacecraft pilot could push the ACA control stick to near the limit of its tilt to directly engage the solenoids to fire the thrusters, bypassing the SCS electronics entirely.

Docking Index (Docking Angle, Roll CAL)
As the connection between the CSM and LM was round, it was possible to dock at a slightly "twisted" angle if their roll angles were slightly different. The error here could be read off of little marks in the tunnel connecting the two craft.

E-Memory
A now-archaic term for the temporary (volatile) memory in the computer system, which was used to store and compute the state of the computer and spacecraft.

Electronics Control Assembly (ECA)
The logic center at the heart of the SCS. It sat between the ACA/TTCA control sticks and the thrusters, and could translate commands from one to the other in different ways.

Entry Batteries (Entry battery, Entry bat)
The rechargeable CM batteries A through C were designated for use during re-entry and landing. When you hear configuration happen on BAT A, this is one of the three entry batteries.

Full scale
This term was applied to gauges whose needles were pinned to the top of their dial: the implication was that the reading was _at least_ maximum.

Glycol (Water, Coolant)
A water/glycol mix was circulated around the spacecraft to heat-producing components such as the computer as a cooling system. A combination of heat transfer to cryogenic O₂, radiation, and evaporation was used to dissipate the heat. Glycol was added to the water as an antifreeze.

Display/Keyboard (DSKY)
Pronounced "diskey." This was the primary interface between the crew and the Apollo Guidance Computer.

Electrical Power System (EPS)
The broad term encompassing the whole electrical power system on either craft, including the fuel cells in the CSM, and the inverters, batteries, and buses in either spacecraft.

Environmental Control System (ECS)
The broad term encompassing an entire set of systems that provided breathable air and maintained acceptable temperatures for both crew and equipment, among other things.

Evaporator (Sublimator, Boiler)
While radiators helped cool the water/glycol coolant as a closed cycle, this was not always sufficient to carry away all excess heat. In this case, the evaporator (variously referred to as the sublimator or boiler) would bleed off the water as a gas: evaporating water carries heat away. Of course, this resulted in a loss of that water.

Fine Align (VERB 42)
A method of readjusting the orientation of the IMU Stable Member in which it was pulse-torqued slowly around, preserving the inertial sensors. This resulted in a very precise adjustment without risking invalidation of the alignment as with a coarse align, but it was quite slow.

Flight Director Attitude Indicator (FDAI, Eight-ball, Ball, Balls)
Similar to an aircraft's artificial horizon, the FDAI displayed the spacecraft attitude and rates in a tactile form. Unlike an artificial horizon, the orientation of its origin point could be configured. It was painted with a red zone where gimbal lock would occur.

Flows
A slang term for electrical current.

Free-return
A trajectory that, without any further maneuvering whatsoever, returns to Earth. Apollo 13 was the first Apollo mission whose approach toward the Moon was not on free-return, as the desired landing site was further afield than the previous two landings.

Fuel cell (Fuel cells)
A clever system which reacted H₂ and O₂ to produce water and electricity. It is essentially like a battery, with a cathode and anode, but with flowing rather than static reactants. There were three on board Apollo, each supplying 31 volts.

Fuel Cell Pump (Fuel Cell Pumps, FUEL CELL 1 PUMP, FUEL CELL 2 PUMP, FUEL CELL 3 PUMP)
The fuel cell pumps didn't pump reactants, they pumped coolant. A water/glycol mixture was used to keep the fuel cell systems from overheating.

Gimbal Angle Sequencing Transformation Assembly (GASTA)
Simplistically, did some necessary signal transformation to make the FDAI read sensibly.

Gimbal lock
This [famous term](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OmCzZ-D8Wdk) refers to the inability of the spacecraft's attitude-tracking gimbals to deal with certain orientations. In gimbal lock, two of the three gyroscopic axes aligned with each other, rendering them unable to turn independently to track certain spacecraft movements, which would in turn invalidate the spacecraft alignment and the crew would have to manually realign from star sightings.

G&N
Guidance and Navigation.

Gyro Torquing Angles (Gyro Torques)
??

H₂ (Hydrogen)
Hydrogen gas. This was stored in cryogenic tanks and used along with O₂ in the fuel cells to produce power and water.

Helium
Helium is often used to this day in spacecraft for its extraordinarily high natural compressibility as an inert repressurization agent as material left a pressurized environment.

Hypergolic
A reaction where chemicals ignite and burn spontaneously on contact with each other. Hypergolic chemicals tend to be nasty, but don't need any separate ignition system.

Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU)
The heart of Apollo navigation. This system held a stable member steady with gyroscopes as the spacecraft rotated around it, giving a stable reference from which to measure the ship's attitude. More information and a diagram [here](#overview-navigation).

Instrument Unit (IU)
A ring at the top of the final Saturn S-IVB boost stage contained all the guidance and communications electronics for the entire Saturn V vehicle.

Inverter (Inverters, INVERTER 1, INVERTER 2, INVERTER 3)
A device that pulls DC power and transforms it into AC power by oscillating its output. You might use one in your car, RV, or boat to power AC devices off a DC battery.

Jet (Jets)
A colloquial term for an RCS thruster.

Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH)
Canisters of LiOH were used to scrub carbon dioxide from the air. They would deplete as they did so.

Lunar Guidance Computer (LGC)
The AGC that lived in the LM. It was identical to the CMC, but it had a few different software programs loaded into it.

LM Heater
A number of heaters in the Lunar Module kept components from freezing over on the long trip to the Moon. After the CSM/LM docking maneuver, power was sent from the CSM to the LM to fire up these heaters.

LMS
Lunar Module Simulator.

Lunar Module (LM)
The Lunar Module was the lightweight standalone component which actually descended to the Moon. It had two propulsion systems, an RCS system, navigation equipment and computers independent of the Command Module, and batteries and oxygen tanks for power and air.

Main Display Console (MDC)
The three central control panels in the CM were MDC-1, -2, and -3. You can find a diagram of them [here](#ref-panel-cm-mdc).

Master Arm
The various functions on the Explosive Devices section of [panel 8](#ref-panel-lm) would not function unless MASTER ARM was ON. This included RCS pressurization, staging, and starting the DPS.

Master Caution and Warning (MC&W, MASTER ALARM)
The master alarm alerted the crew to issues that required immediate attention.

Minimum Impulse (MIN IMPULSE)
In this SCS ECA control mode, each time the rotation control joystick was deflected from neutral the relevant thruster would fire a tiny, predictable burst (15 milliseconds), only firing again once the stick was let go. It would fire only single jets, rather than in pairs.

Null
Zero.

O₂ (Oxygen)
Oxygen gas. This was stored in cryogenic tanks and used along with O₂ in the fuel cells to produce power and water, cooling liquid for the glycol thermal control system, and pressurized air for the cabin and spacesuits.

Odyssey
The given name of the Apollo 13 Command Module.

Omnidirectional antenna (OMNI, OMNIs, OMNI Alpha, OMNI Bravo, OMNI Charlie, Aft OMNI, Forward OMNI)
The omnidirectional antennas weren't as performant as the steerable antenna at its best, but weren't as fidgety. Multiple were required, as the spacecraft itself would block signal as it rotated. Switching between them was manual.

Open-circuit
To break a circuit physically so it no longer forms a loop. This was as much as one could do to ensure an electrical circuit was entirely offline.

Orbital Rate Display Earth and Lunar (ORDEAL)
Where the FDAI normally aligned against an absolute frame of reference against the universe given a REFSMMAT, the ORDEAL mode shifted its zero origin to mimick an aircraft's artificial horizon when orbiting the Earth or Moon, which was helpful for test pilots used to flying aircraft.

P00 (Program 00)
An idle program for the AGC. Pronounced "poo." The AGC was never completely idle, but this was as close as it got, and it ensured the AGC wouldn't try to goof up any numbers while the ground controllers were uplinking data to the spacecraft.

P30
External ∆V burn program. Given a good platform, a slew of numbers representing the desired ∆V, Tig, and other parameters, the computer could prepare for the necessary components of a burn.

P40
Automated DPS burn program. Once set up, the computer could manage all the controls and timing required for the burn.

P47
A passive burn program which allowed the crew to monitor the state of a burn being executed outside the computer's control, like the S-IVB TLI or the RCS-based post-burn residual trim.

P51
An alignment program in the AGC for acquiring spacecraft attitude. It would prompt the crew to execute a two-star sighting with the AOT to determine spacecraft attitude relative to the universe (and thus present IMU orientation), assuming nothing about the present attitude.

P52
A realignment program in the AGC which repositioned the IMU Stable Member to a desired orientation selected by the crew, often to best-avoid gimbal lock. An IMU coarse align would be performed, after which the computer would point the AOT at a star for visual reconfirmation of the known attitude. An IMU fine align would then correct any small errors.

Passive Thermal Control (PTC)
The Sun is incredibly harsh in space: the difference between the lighted and shadowed side of the spacecraft was as much as 300˚C. To deal with this, Apollo was often put into a slow roll, and thrusters were disengaged (hence, passive). This was called a PTC.

Pericynthion (PC)
The point of closest approach to the Moon in an orbital trajectory.

Perigee
The point of closest approach to Earth in an orbital trajectory, but often imprecisely used to describe the closest approach to any astrophysical body (the better generic term is periapsis, which is a bit of a mouthful).

Pitch
One of three measures of a spacecraft's attitude. Think of a plane pointing up or down to climb or descend. Also used to describe the aim of the steerable antenna.

PGNCS (PGNS)
Pronounced "pings," the Primary Guidance, Navigation, and Control System was a collective name for a series of components including the IMU, AGC, and AOT that collectively provided on-board determination and control of spacecraft position and attitude.

Platform
A known good attitude alignment in the spacecraft systems. Actions like rotating through gimbal lock or powering the inertial guidance systems (eg IMU) down as the spacecraft inevitably drifted, would invalidate the known alignment information, and thus cause a loss of platform.

Power Amplifier (POWER AMPL)
As implied by the name, the [power amplifier](http://www.spaceaholic.com/index.php/Detail/Object/Show/object_id/35) boosted the received radio signal from Earth. This was one of many ways to increase the fidelity of the link, but it was a bit power-hungry. There was one each in the CM and LM.

Powered Descent Initiation (PDI)
The initial sequence to fire the DPS to start bringing the undocked LM down to the Lunar surface.

Pre-Advisory Data (PAD)
The Flight Plan carried by the crew on board contained forms to be filled in with data read up over voice to, among other things, set the spacecraft up for a burn.

Probe and Drogue
The CM and LM docked along the access tunnel the crew use to transit the two. This means that the guidepost (probe) and receptacle dish (drogue) end up inside the tunnel, and thus had to be unmounted and moved aside.

Propellant Isolation (PROP ISOL)
These valves entirely shut off propellant to their given thrusters or engines.

Propellant Quantity Gauging System (PQGS)
Capacitance sensors and other techniques were used for the tricky task of assessing remaining propellant in the tanks in microgravity.

Pulse Code Modulation (PCM)
A method of encoding digital data into radio wave signals, still in use today for various purposes.

Rate Command (RATE CMD)
This control mode was highly assistive, essentially managing joystick input akin to an arcade game: a small deflection would turn the craft slowly, more deflection would increase the rates, and letting go would prompt the SCS ECA to halt all spacecraft rotation.

Rate Damping (Damping)
In some of the SCS/ECS control modes (eg ATT HOLD), the spacecraft would automatically fire thrusters to bring its rates to zero or near-zero, so that the spacecraft had a stable, fixed attitude in space.

Rates
The rate of change in the spacecraft's attitude: essentially, the speed of its rotation. Sometimes used to express an acceleration rather than a speed: "giving us rates."

Reaction Control System (RCS, Thruster, A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4)
Small thrusters used to lightly maneuver the spacecraft, usually to adjust attitude or perform ullage before a full engine burn. They are referred to by their Quad pack name and a number.

RCS SELECT (AUTO RCS)
This row of switches on [panel 8](#ref-panel-cm-aux) toggled the RCS thrusters on and off for use with the various SCS control modes.

Reactants valve (Reactant valves, REAC valve, REACs valve)
These valves allowed cryogenic oxygen and hydrogen to each fuel cell. Because these valves required careful tuning to correctly balance the flows, they could not be reopened once closed. And because of this irreversibility, the actuator which turned them off was normally kept unpowered on the circuit breaker panel.

Reference to Stable Member Matrix (REFSMMAT)
Oversimplistically, the REFSMMAT was a numerical matrix that converted the navigation coordinate system (in particular for the IMU and FDAI) such that they made sense relative to their ongoing operation: for instance, having the zero origin point along the axis of a burn or PTC. New REFSMMATs could be uplinked to the spacecraft from the ground.

Resolvers
The sensors in the IMU gimbal system that read the angle of each gimbal ring.

Roll
One of three measures of a spacecraft's attitude. Think of a sausage turning on a spit.

Real-time Computing Complex (RTCC)
Five mainframes lived here, which amongst other things processed the data that was displayed in Mission Control.

Repress Package (REPRESS pack)
This set of three 1lb oxygen tanks were primarily reserved to help repressurize the cabin in an emergency, as well as to supply oxygen to face masks in that event. You can find them on the [oxygen subsystem diagram](#ref-panel-o2).

Residuals (Residual)
Given burn parameters, the computer could calculate the error between the desired effect of a burn and what was actually achieved. If the residuals were sufficiently large, a small follow-up burn (often with RCS) would correct them.

S-IVB
The final stage of the Saturn V, the S-IVB performed Trans-lunar Injection and in the case of Apollo 13 traveled to the Moon near Apollo, with the goal of impacting the surface for seismograph measurements by a package left by Apollo 12.

Service Module (SM)
This was the long cylindrical section attached to the Command Module which included, amongst other things, the SPS and its propellant, cryogenic oxygen and hydrogen tanks, the fuel cells, and an RCS system.

Service Propulsion System (SPS)
This was the hypergolic main engine on the Service Module. It burned Aerozine with nitrogen tetroxide, and normally did all the work of getting to and from lunar orbit.

SIG SENSOR
There was a circuit breaker labeled "SIG SENSOR," and so this became a general name for the instrumentation systems on the spacecraft.

SOV (SOVs)
Shut-off valve.

Stabilization and control system (SCS)
The SCS monitored the spacecraft attitude and rates, and could automatically control the thrusters to maintain certain parameters. It also served as a backup to the PGNCS.

Stable Member
The [central unit in the IMU](#ref-panel-navigation) which stayed still as the spacecraft rotated around it, allowing for attitude measurement. It could be manually repositioned.

Staging
The act and process of jettisoning a stage of the spacecraft.

Steerable Antenna (S-Band Antenna, steerable, high-gain)
The Steerable S-Band Antenna could point in a particular direction and focus a high-powered signal at it. This greatly improved power efficiency and communications quality with ground systems. The computer on-board could typically aim it automatically.

Surge Tank
A reserve tank of pressurized O₂ on the CM itself. This meant it stayed on-board and could be used through Earth re-entry. You can find it on the [oxygen subsystem diagram](#ref-panel-o2).

Spacecraft Analysis Room (SPAN)
The SPAN room was a support room that provided a liaison between the NASA flight controllers and the engineers at the private contractors that actually designed and manufactured the various spacecraft components.

SSR
Special subroutine procedure checklist. In other contexts, SSR can also mean the Staff Support Room in Mission Control, where each flight controller's team worked with them over their own loop.

State Vector
The mathematical vectors that describe exactly where the spacecraft is in the universe, and its momentary velocity in that position.

Systems test
Not every measurement was available directly on a panel gauge or to the telemetry systems. Some readings had to be taken manually off a panel-mounted voltmeter one at a time.

Talkback (Talkbacks)
Talkback indicators accompanied many switches on the control panel, and provided feedback on the status of the system that switch controls, often indicating whether the switch was actually having the intended effect. They could read grey (positive) or barber pole (negative).

Time of Ignition (Tig)
The mission time at which ignition was expected for a burn.

TLC
Trans-lunar coast. The period during which the spacecraft's orbit takes between the Earth and the Moon.

Telemetry (TM)
Most, but not all, of the critical instrument readings on Apollo were sent over radio to ground stations on a PCM code. These were then relayed over an extensive ground communications network to Houston for display.

Thrust Chamber Assembly (TCA, TCAs)
The "business end" of the RCS system.

Thrust/Translation Control Assembly (TTCA, TTCAs, THC)
This control joystick commanded the spacecraft to translate (shift without rotation) around in any directional axis. Also known as the Translation Hand Controller (THC).

Thrust Vectoring Control (TVC)
Many booster and spacecraft engines have the ability to gimbal the engine by a few degrees, and thus direct the outputted thrust off-axis to turn the craft.

Trans-lunar Injection (TLI)
The big burn that took the spacecraft from a near-circular Earth orbit to a highly elliptical orbit calculated to coincide with the Moon in its orbit.

Tunnel
The passageway between the CM and LM formed when the two craft docked together. Within it were the probe and drogue, hatches, and power umbilical.

Ullage
Fuel [doesn't sit neatly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u656se4e34M#t=1m04) (volume warning) at the bottom of the tank in microgravity. Ullage is any means by which fuel is pushed to the feed lines for usage; often a forward acceleration of the spacecraft around the fuel to push it back to the bottom, or pressurized gas to occupy the empty volume.

Undervolt
An electrical supply or bus that is providing less voltage than expected is undervolting. You can see this in the batteries you use at home: as they get used up, the voltage they put out drops. Low enough voltage, and they no longer power your device.

Unified S-Band (S-Band)
The "S-Band Antenna" colloquially referred to the steerable high-gain antenna, but all air-ground communications were done on the Unified S-Band, a microwave frequency range in the neighborhood of 2100-2300 Mhz, which was chosen and engineered to allow telemetry, tracking, and voice to all carry over one set of transmission systems.

Quad (Quads)
A pack of four RCS thrusters. The letters A-D (and sometimes phonetic names thereof) referred to different quads on the CSM.

∆V
Change in velocity.

VERB 06 NOUN 18 (06 18)
An Apollo Guidance Computer notice/error normally shown during LM extraction. It is unclear why it would be popping up here, but certainly it is some kind of attitude/navigational alarm.

VERB 06 NOUN 20 (06 20)
VERB 06 was a request to display a value stored in the computer's memory at the point in time of request, and NOUN 20 was the CDU angles of the IMU as read and understood by the computer.

VERB 16 NOUN 20 (16 NOUN 20)
Whereas VERB 06 displayed a computer value once, VERB 16 monitored it continuously. NOUN 20 was the CDU angles of the IMU as read and understood by the computer.

VERB 16 NOUN 85 (16 85)
Continuously monitored the velocity residuals after a burn.

VERB 49
A command issued to autopilot the spacecraft to a new desired attitude.

VERB 55
Incremented the computer time by a given delta.

VERB 65
Disabled some particular RCS thrusters during DPS burns.

VERB 74 (E-MOD, E-MOD DUMP)
Initiates a dump of the erasable memory (E-Memory) over the downlink to Earth for analysis, verification, and safekeeping. The resulting artifact was called an E-DUMP or E-MOD.

VERB 76
Activates MIN IMPULSE control mode.

Very High Frequency (VHF)
No different than the VHF radios used on aircraft and maritime vessels today, VHF was used by the CM, LM, and spacewalking astronauts for simple and reliable close-range communications.

Voice Function (Normal VOICE, DOWN VOICE BACKUP)
The Voice Function switch toggled the preprocessing of the voice audio pre-transmission; normal VOICE was more intelligible and easier to listen to in normal conditions, whereas the cranked-up DOWN VOICE BACKUP was useful in poor signal quality.

VOX
A voice transmission mode in which the crew's microphones continually broadcast to the ground. The nominal alternative was push-to-talk (PTT).

Yaw
One of three measures of a spacecraft's attitude. Think of flicking a spinner on a table. Also used to describe the aim of the steerable antenna.

[personnel]
FLIGHT
The Flight Director was entrusted to do anything necessary to ensure the safety of the crew and the success of the mission, and had this ultimate authority for the duration of any flight.

AFD
The Assistant Flight Director worked with FLIGHT on whatever was required at the time, allowing the Flight Director to offload tasks and focus on managing the mission.

CAPCOM
The Capsule Communicator was, with rare exception, the only person allowed to speak directly to the crew. CAPCOMs were nearly always members of the astronaut pool.

CONTROL
The Control Officer was essentially the GNC for the Lunar Module, in charge of the navigational systems and software, as well as the propulsion hardware and fuel.

EECOM
The Electrical, Environmental and Consumables Manager managed the lowest level hardware in the CSM for power generation and consumption, electrical distribution, air and water, and the cryogenic gas tanks required for all of the above.

FAO
The Flight Activities Officer generally managed and monitored procedures and schedules, and much of the prerequisites to get things done on schedule, such as crew and equipment movement.

FDO
The Flight Dynamics Officer managed the spacecraft trajectory, understanding its ballistic path and managing changes to it to deliver the spacecraft to its destination.

GNC
The Guidance, Navigation, and Controls Systems Engineer monitored the low-level systems that ultimately sent the spacecraft where it had to go: the propulsion and fuel thereof, the navigation computer hardware and software, and more.

GUIDO
Where GNC managed the navigation and propulsion systems themselves, the Guidance Officer was in charge of their use, as well as the computer software, and tracking the position and orientation of the spacecraft.

INCO
The Integrated Communications Officer managed the communications and telemetry systems of both the CSM and LM. This included the uplink of data to the spacecraft computer.

NETWORK
An oft-underappreciated but massive system of ground and sea stations were required to maintain round-the-clock communications with the spacecraft. The Network officer managed this process.

PROCEDURES
The Organization & Procedures Officer ensured that best practices were followed and things were done by the book. This may sound like a trivial job, but the smallest errors can lead to major disasters in spaceflight.

RECOVERY
The Recovery Supervisor coordinated all the necessary components for successful recovery of the spacecraft upon splashdown, including but not limited to the recovery ships and where they could viably be at the appropriate times.

RETRO
The Retrofire Officer was in charge of any plans and maneuvers necessary to get the crew on a homewards trajectory. Back in the Earth orbit days, this entailed a retrograde burn of an appropriate time and ∆V; hence the name.

TELMU
The Telemetry, Electrical, and EVA Mobility Unit Officer was essentially the EECOM of the Lunar Module, in charge of its electrical and environmental hardware systems.

CDR
The Commander was the ultimate authority amongst the crew, and helped operate both spacecraft, ultimately landing on the Moon. At the point of Apollo 13, veteran Commander Jim Lovell had logged more hours in space than anybody.

CMP
The Command Module Pilot was the primary expert and operator of the Command Module. CMP Jack Swigert was a last-minute addition to the crew, but this change may have been fortuitous, as he was known to be amongst those most familiar with the failure modes and abnormal operation procedures of the CM.

LMP
The Lunar Module Pilot was the primary expert and operator of the Lunar Module. LMP Fred Haise was to command the eventually-cancelled Apollo 19, and went on to particpate in many early Space Shuttle tests.

